index.md, before:

---
layout: default
---



# [](#welcome)Welcome


I am **Dr. Daniel Hernández García**, I am a researcher in Robotics, Cognitive Sciences and Human-Robot Interaction.

Since 2016 I'm a **Postdoctoral Research Fellow** at the [Centre for Robotics and Neural Systems](https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/robotics-neural-systems) in Plymouth University (United Kingdom). I received my M.S degree in Robotics and Automation and my Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Automation from Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, in 2010 and 2014, respectively.

Follow the link to know more [about me](about).

<!-- ### Contact
Daniel Hernández García

School of Computing and Mathematics

University of Plymouth

A216 Portland Square

Plymouth PL4 8AA

United Kingdom

email: daniel.hernandez  plymouth.ac.uk

web: dhgarcia.github.io

phone: +44 799 -->



# [](#research)Research

My current research is carried out under the scope of two EU projects [DREAM](research#dream) and [L2TOR](research#l2tor). I am focused on Human-Robot Interaction in social robots for education and therapy; developing Robot-Enhanced Therapy (RET) and child-friendly tutor robots for second language learning.

Follow the link to learn more about my [research](research) and the [projects](research#projects) I have worked on.

# [](#publications)Publications

My most recent publication:

**Daniel Hernández García**; Samantha Adams; Alex Rast; Thomas Wennekers; Steve Furber; Angelo Cangelosi. **Visual Attention and Object Naming in Humanoid Robots Using a Bio-Inspired Spiking Neural Network.** _Robotics and Autonomous Systems._ Available online 5 March 2018.

Follow the link for a full list of my [publications](publications).

# [](#teaching)Teaching

Follow the link to see my [teaching](teaching) interests.

# [](#cv)Experience

Follow the link to see my detailed [CV](cv).


# [](#news)Posts

My latest post:

{% if site.posts.size > 0 %}
  <ul>
    <li>
      {% assign date_format = site.dinky.date_format | default: "%b %-d, %Y" %}
      <span class="post-meta">{{ site.posts.first.date | date: date_format }}</span>
      <h3>
        <a class="post-link" href="{{ site.posts.first.url | relative_url }}">
          {{ site.posts.first.title | escape }}
        </a>
      </h3>
    </li>
  </ul>
{% endif %}

Follow the link to see all of my [posts](posts).


* * *

<!-- > This is a blockquote following a header.
>
> When something is important enough, you do it even if the odds are not in your favor. -->
> "I am amused to observe that you think I am a coward. As to that I will say only one word, and that shall be entirely in the manner of your own philosophical rhetoric. You think that it is possible to pull down the President. I know that it is impossible, and I am going to try it”
>
> G. K. Chesterton. The Man Who Was Thursday.

<p><small><a href="mailto:{{ site.email_address | encode_email }}" title="Contact me">Contact me</a></small></p>
#### [jump to top](#welcome)

Commit message:

moved to Manchester now on index, about update missing

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
---



# [](#welcome)Welcome


I am **Dr. Daniel Hernández García**, I am a researcher in Robotics, Cognitive Sciences and Human-Robot Interaction.

Since 2019 I'm a **Postdoctoral Research Fellow** at the [COGNITIVE ROBOTICS LAB](https://corolab.github.io/) in the School of Computer Science, University of Manchester (United Kingdom).
Previously I was a **Postdoctoral Fellow** at the Centre for Robotics and Neural Systems in Plymouth University (United Kingdom). I received my M.S degree in Robotics and Automation and my Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Automation from Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, in 2010 and 2014, respectively.

Follow the link to know more [about me](about).

<!-- ### Contact
Daniel Hernández García

School of Computing and Mathematics

University of Plymouth

A216 Portland Square

Plymouth PL4 8AA

United Kingdom

email: daniel.hernandez  plymouth.ac.uk

web: dhgarcia.github.io

phone: +44 799 -->



# [](#research)Research

My current research is carried out under the scope of two EU projects [DREAM](research#dream) and [L2TOR](research#l2tor). I am focused on Human-Robot Interaction in social robots for education and therapy; developing Robot-Enhanced Therapy (RET) and child-friendly tutor robots for second language learning.

Follow the link to learn more about my [research](research) and the [projects](research#projects) I have worked on.

# [](#publications)Publications

My most recent publication:

**Daniel Hernández García**; Samantha Adams; Alex Rast; Thomas Wennekers; Steve Furber; Angelo Cangelosi. **Visual Attention and Object Naming in Humanoid Robots Using a Bio-Inspired Spiking Neural Network.** _Robotics and Autonomous Systems._ Available online 5 March 2018.

Follow the link for a full list of my [publications](publications).

# [](#teaching)Teaching

Follow the link to see my [teaching](teaching) interests.

# [](#cv)Experience

Follow the link to see my detailed [CV](cv).


# [](#news)Posts

My latest post:

{% if site.posts.size > 0 %}
  <ul>
    <li>
      {% assign date_format = site.dinky.date_format | default: "%b %-d, %Y" %}
      <span class="post-meta">{{ site.posts.first.date | date: date_format }}</span>
      <h3>
        <a class="post-link" href="{{ site.posts.first.url | relative_url }}">
          {{ site.posts.first.title | escape }}
        </a>
      </h3>
    </li>
  </ul>
{% endif %}

Follow the link to see all of my [posts](posts).


* * *

<!-- > This is a blockquote following a header.
>
> When something is important enough, you do it even if the odds are not in your favor. -->
> "I am amused to observe that you think I am a coward. As to that I will say only one word, and that shall be entirely in the manner of your own philosophical rhetoric. You think that it is possible to pull down the President. I know that it is impossible, and I am going to try it”
>
> G. K. Chesterton. The Man Who Was Thursday.

<p><small><a href="mailto:{{ site.email_address | encode_email }}" title="Contact me">Contact me</a></small></p>
#### [jump to top](#welcome)
