teaching.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# [](#teaching)Teaching


I am currently involved in the following modules at the School of Computing, Electronics and Mathematics in University of Plymouth:

- ROCO224 Introduction to Robotics
- PRCO304 Computing Project
- MECH533 Robotics and Control


Between 2010 and 2014 I was demonstrator for [Industrial Informatics](https://aplicaciones.uc3m.es/cpa/generaFicha?est=256&anio=2017&plan=244&asig=15694&idioma=2), [Control Engineering I](https://aplicaciones.uc3m.es/cpa/generaFicha?est=223&anio=2017&plan=167&asig=14026&idioma=2) and [Control Engineering II](https://aplicaciones.uc3m.es/cpa/generaFicha?est=223&anio=2017&plan=167&asig=14032&idioma=2) at the Department of Systems Engineering and Automation in Universidad Carlos III de Madrid.
I also supervised BSc, BEng final year student projects.

Between 2005 and 2006 I was an Undergraduate Teaching Assistant in the Electronics and Circuits Department at Universidad Simón Bolívar for [Computer Architectures I (Arquitectura del Computador I)](http://wikitronica.labc.usb.ve/index.php/EC2721_-_Arquitectura_del_Computador_1) and [Computer Architectures II (Arquitectura del Computador II)](http://wikitronica.labc.usb.ve/index.php/EC3731_-_Arquitectura_del_Computador_2).


#### [jump to top](#teaching)
#### [back](javascript:history.back())

Commit message:

update web to heriot-watt

teaching.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# [](#teaching)Teaching

At Heriot-Watt University I was Lecturer for course F21AS Advanced Software Engineering in 2021.


At the University of Manchester I was a Lab Demonstrator in 2019 for COMP34212 Cognitive Robotics (BSc Computer Science) course.

Between 2016 and 2018 I was involved as Demonstrator, Marker, and Lecturer for the following modules at the School of Computing, Electronics and Mathematics in University of Plymouth:
<!-- I am currently involved in the following modules at the School of Computing, Electronics and Mathematics in University of Plymouth: -->
- ROCO224 Introduction to Robotics
- PRCO304 Computing Project
- MECH533 Robotics and Control
- SOFT152 Software Engineering
- AINT352 Computational Intelligence


Between 2010 and 2014 I was demonstrator for [Industrial Informatics](https://aplicaciones.uc3m.es/cpa/generaFicha?est=256&anio=2017&plan=244&asig=15694&idioma=2), [Control Engineering I](https://aplicaciones.uc3m.es/cpa/generaFicha?est=223&anio=2017&plan=167&asig=14026&idioma=2) and [Control Engineering II](https://aplicaciones.uc3m.es/cpa/generaFicha?est=223&anio=2017&plan=167&asig=14032&idioma=2) at the Department of Systems Engineering and Automation in Universidad Carlos III de Madrid.
I also supervised BSc, BEng final year student projects.

Between 2005 and 2006 I was an Undergraduate Teaching Assistant in the Electronics and Circuits Department at Universidad Simón Bolívar for [Computer Architectures I (Arquitectura del Computador I)](http://wikitronica.labc.usb.ve/index.php/EC2721_-_Arquitectura_del_Computador_1) and [Computer Architectures II (Arquitectura del Computador II)](http://wikitronica.labc.usb.ve/index.php/EC3731_-_Arquitectura_del_Computador_2).

<!-- Control Engineering I (14026) (Bsc Electrical Power Engineering) Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. Lab Demonstrator. 2012
Control Engineering II (14032) (Bsc Electrical Power Engineering) Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. Lab Demonstrator. 2011
Industrial Informatics (15694)} (Bsc Industrial Technology Engineering) Universidad Carlos III de Madrid. Lab Demonstrator. 2011-12
Computer Architectures II (EC3731) (Bsc Electronic Engineering) Universidad Simon Bolivar. Undergraduate Teaching Assistant. 2006
Computer  Architectures I (EC2721) (Bsc Electronic Engineering) Universidad Simon Bolivar. Undergraduate Teaching Assistant. 2005 -->



#### [jump to top](#teaching)
#### [back](javascript:history.back())
